#labels Featured,Phase-Deploy
= Installation =

To install !MagickTiler, simply unzip the distribution bundle to your hard disk.

*Important:* !MagickTiler uses !GraphicsMagick to perform image manipulation (resizing, cropping, etc.) Therefore, you must also install !GraphicsMagick from http://www.graphicsmagick.org/ before using !MagickTiler!

= CLI and GUI Usage =

!MagickTiler can be used from the command line prompt using the command
'java -jar magicktiler.jar', plus appropriate options. 

*Example:* {{{java -jar magicktiler.jar -s tms -f jpeg -p -i images}}}

The example command will create TMS tilesets (with JPEG tiles) for each file
in the folder 'images'. A preview HTML file will be added to each tileset. 

*Command options:*<br>
  {{{-h}}} .... displays help text<br>
  {{{-i}}} ....   input file or directory<br>
  {{{-o}}} ....   output directory (for tilesets) or file (for PTIF)<br>
  {{{-s}}} ....   selects the tiling scheme ('tms', 'zoomify','gmap' or 'ptif')<br>
  {{{-f}}} ....   selects the tile image format ('jpeg' or 'png')<br>
  {{{-q}}} ....   sets the JPEG compression quality from 0 (low) to 100 (high)<br>
  {{{-b}}} ....   selects a background color (if applicable for the selected tile scheme)<br>
  {{{-p}}} ....   generates an HTML preview file<br>
  {{{-g}}} ....   starts the GUI<br>
  {{{-l}}} ....   writes all relevant reporting information to a log file<br>
  {{{-v}}} ....   validate instead of convert: checks existing tilesets and generates a report about their correctness/integrity

= Lib Usage =

!MagickTiler can also be used as a Java library. Just add the magicktiler.jar to your build path. Here is a simple code example for generating Google Map Tiles. It works similar for all other tiling schemes.

{{{
test test
}}}